[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: How and why ES6 2015?
So ES6 itself is feature complete as
of maybe a month, month and a half ago.
So they're not adding any more features or
anything to the current set of ES6.
So what they did was, first,
the committee was like,
well, this is great, and we still
have all these proposals coming in.
What we want to do is we want to
continue this process every year.
So I don't know how long it took for
ES6 to come out, years and years.
So now they're like,
well, this took too long.
We want the stuff to come out every year.
So it makes sense for them to change the
name from ES6 to ES2015 as the release of
like all the proposals and features that
made this cut this year, you know ES2015.
But there continues to be
an influx of more proposals and
more features that are being added.
And they will be released in
other versions, ES2016, ES2017,
etc., or we can use them today,
as you'll soon find out.
So there are tons of helpful new
features that have been added.
Some are entirely new concepts
that I haven't seen before in any
programming language.
Sure they exist somewhere,
I just haven't come across them.
And some are just standard stuff you see
in other languages that they adopted,
even some from CoffeeScript,
they were just like, well,
they got a lot of inspiration
from CoffeeScript.
So if you like CoffeeScript you'll kind of
feel familiar with some of the stuff here,
cuz they definitely took a lot
of inspiration from there.
But with all that said, all those
features definitely made developing
a little bit more less hard in JavaScript
and, in my opinion a lot more fun.
Like I was kinda getting bored with
JavaScript, I was like, yeah this sucks.
All this cool stuff is coming out,
there's other languages.
And then, ES2015 is like,
now you can do this and I am like all
right, all right, this is pretty cool.
So it kind of made it a little more
fun for me to write some JavaScript.
However, all that new stuff we just talked
about isn't fully implemented in all
the browsers, even the latest ones.
So they're being released feature by
feature into the browsers I think
Microsoft Edge is the leading browser
right now that has the most ES2015.
It's crazy, right, like Microsoft?
Yeah I know,
they're doing better than all of them.
So they're really doing
a good job with that.
Chrome is pretty good,
Safari, not too sure.
I don't think they're doing as
well as Edge and Chrome, but
they're getting there, so they're
starting to release their stuff out.
I mean,
you can open up the console right now and
you can see some of the stuff
that's already in there.
But with that being said, because
it's not available in the browsers,
we can't just run ES2015
right in a browser.
Some things may work,
some things might not work.
But, I can guarantee your
application just won't run, or
as soon as it sees a syntax error or
something, it's just going to crash.
So, we have to use like a transpiler,
very much like CoffeeScript.
In fact,
it's the same thing as CoffeeScript.
So there are two transpilers that
have emerged as like the go tos for
compiling ES2015, and
they are Babel and Traceur.
Babel is this community one, is really
awesome, Traceur's built by Google.
I think it was there first,
Babel used to be called 6 to 5, so
if you've seen that before,
that's what that is.
They just changed the names because they
realized that it's not just about ES2016
or it's like a whole another thing.
So these are the two, there are more but
these are like the two that
the community is backing and following.
I recommend Babel, and
that's the one we're going to be using.
The reason is, the compiled
JavaScript that it spits out is like
way closer to the original source code.
It's not exactly like a human may have
written it, but it's a lot closer than
Traceur, if you look at what Traceur spits
out, it's just like [LAUGH] what is that?
Like, no, no, no,
way a person would ever write that.
So and Traceur requires
a runtime whereas Babel doesn't.
There's no runtime and
you can just like pick and
choose different polyfills as you please,
if you want to.
So it's really, really legit.
So we have a transpiler, that's going
to be our tool for compiling ES5,
or ES2015 down to ES5.
So we can work in environments
like the browser or Node or
whatever you're programming on,
a TV or smart watch.
So the transpiler's going to do the work
of the conversion, but we're all lazy and
we don't want to do that
manually every time, right?
So we need some type of build
systems inside the build tool.
So, I mean, I can list every single
build tool in every system out there and
we'll be talking for days.
So I'm just going to talk about the ones
that I think that are the most popular
ones for this ES2015 process, and
the ones that have the best support.
And those three are Webpack,
JSPM, which stands for
JavaScript Package Manager.
This is the one Angular 2 is using and
they're going to continue to use.
And it's like,
it really does follow the ES2015 spec, and
then there's Gulp which is Gulp,
Gulp is Gulp, right, it's awesome.
What we're gonna be using is
a combination of Webpack and Gulp.
Although JSPM is the recommended one,
and it's the one Angular 2 uses, we're
not gonna use it toda, mainly because
the configuration is a little difficult.
And the plugin support isn't as robust
as Webpack is right now because JSPM
is a little newer.
So for
that reason we'll be using Webpack, but
in the future you'll
probably be using JSPM.
But JSPM itself is like,
it's like a course on itself to be honest.
It's just ridiculously robust.
>> Speaker 2: And
we do have a course on ES6, ES2015 or
whatever, it's by Aaron Frost.
>> Scott Moss: That's right Aaron Frost,
I took it, I should know Aaron Frost.
>> Speaker 3: Are we going
to use JSPM by itself, or
we going to use that with Gulp or
where does that fit in?
>> Scott Moss: So Webpack and
JSPM do not need Gulp.
We're gonna use it together and
you'll see why we use it together but
neither those two build systems need Gulp.
So we'll be using Webpack and
Gulp together with JSPM and
if you were to use it,
you don't need Gulp.
Its job is gonna be just transpiling and
giving you like the actual module
features that ES6 proposed, but
Gulp will do other things that JSPM won't.
Let's say you need a task for
your CI, or some documentation stuff.
JSPM won't do that, all right?
It's only going to do that thing is
like compiling your code, right?
Yeah, so I still use Gulp for
things like that.
>> Speaker 3: Got you.
>> Scott Moss: Creating a server,
running tests, stuff like that.
So you don't need Gulp for
any of this stuff.
But Webpack and JSPM are strictly for
like modifying your source code or
transpiling and stuff and
then beyond that you need something else.
Yeah I think Angular 2 is
using Broccoli for that.
Yeah Broccoli, that's another thing, so,
never had Broccoli, go check it out.
[LAUGH]